MSTS INTERMODAL STRINGS

CREDITS:
Original Idea: P.C. Wise

Original Models: Henry Triplett

Original Textures: Microsoft/Kuju (Main car bodies)
		   Brian Piotrowski (Trailers)
		   Ted Curphey (Wheels "7truck.ace" modified)

Assembled & packaged by Henry Triplett (hmtriplett@yahoo.com) 


BACKGROUND:

This is a follow-up to my original CarStrings release back in 2005 and was prompted by the recent release of Jeff Farquhar's "Surfliner 2" route. As I took a look at the Los Angeles area in Google Earth, I discovered a yad near downtown Los Angeles with a huge amount of rolling stock present in the form of empty "fuel foiler" intermodal cars.  I did not even attempt to re-create this feature with existing stock on the Surfliner 2 route, because I knew from experience that MSTS would not even load.  This also brought back to mind my early attempt to create a double stack container car for my earlier CarStrings.  After some hours on the computer, I was able to create some credible intermodal string stand-ins to fill "baretable" yards and similar facitities.  The project quickly grew to include 89 foot flatcars and loaded versions of intermodal equipment.  This archive is the result.


CONTENTS:

This package consists of strings of various lengths of double stack container cars, fuel foiler type cars, and 89 foot flatcars.  The cars loaded with trailers are a bit heavier in polys than the other offerings as I was unable to produce a decent looking truck tire without using a moderate number of polys.  The method that I used for the car trucks (bogies) did not turn out to be visually satisfying when applied to trailers. 

These low-poly cars strings contain a fraction of the polys in a comparable string of more detailed cars. I made a few departures from the original idea, namely adding axles to the low-poly trucks and adding crude couplers to the end of each string of cars. These departures added polys but I believe that the overall appearance of the cars are improved. This enables the strings to be used fairly close to the player in the sim. If desired, you can add a "real" car to the end of the consist closest to the player to further disquise the "incomplete" nature of the string cars.

The multi-car strings are very simplified and designed to be setup on straight tracks only. Using these strings of cars on curved tracks may yield unpredictable (read ugly) results. Sometimes this will only become apparent when passing the car strings in the sim so be careful with your placement! In addition, the trucks (bogies) and wheels on the multi-car strings are not animated, so I don't recommend using them in a player or AI train under most conditions.

I have included both loaded and unloaded one car "strings" of the various cars/units in this selection. These units are animated at a basic level with one-piece wheel/bogie assemblies. They can be used in the same manner as the longer strings with the benefit of being able to place them on curved yard tracks and sidings. (The bogies will pivot.) The tradeoff of using these cars in place of the longer strings is the fact that the sim would have to calculate the additional physics, thus impacting overall performance. While these units can be used in AI trains, I would recommend using them only where they would not be subjected to close scrutiny.


PREREQUISITES:

None.


INSTALLATION:

1. To install, unzip, copy or move the sub-folders of the "InterStrings" folder to your \Train Simulator\Trains\Trainset folder. The sub-folders are designed to place the strings into the original "CarStrings" folder on your system.

2. Create and add them to a fixed or other consists, enjoy.


TERMS OF USE: 

Use of this software is subject to these conditions:
 The author of this archive makes no guarantee/warranty about the performance of the software included within this archive, implied or otherwise. Use of this software is at your own risk; the author is not responsible for any damages that may result from use of this software.

 This software is freeware; no charge may be made for this archive other than that to cover the cost of its distribution. If a fee is charged it must be made clear to the purchaser that the archive is freeware and that the fee is to cover the distributor's costs of providing the archive.

 Permission is granted to repaint these car strings as desired. I only ask that you do not overwrite the original strings, I plan to use the originals in future activities.

 The authors retains all applicable rights to their creations. 

Copyright June 2012, Henry Triplett

---------------------------------------------


