Thank you for reading this first,

First, let me introduce myself.  My name is Barry LeBoeuf, aka "amtrak115".  I bought and installed MSTS when it first come out many years ago.  I tried to create my own route (Still working on that) using the tools provided but found it difficult and cumbersome.  I also was distracted with life.  (Wife, Kids, Job, etc)  I eventually put MSTS aside and went on with life.  In Aug of 2012 I found Open Rails, and decided to look into that to see if Open Rails had corrected or enhansed the old 2001 version of MSTS.  (Yes, I had the .bin upgrades and all that). Version 0.7.0 of Open Rails from what I remember was not too functional, so again I put it aside.  In Jan of 2018 I retired after over 30 years of service to this country.  (Military and as a DoD Contractor), and after moving back to Texas, download Open Rails again and found it a much better product.  Again I looked into building my own route, (work in progress) I decided to look into activity building tools.  I still have the MSTS loaded on my computer but under Windows 10, it's currently not functional.  Even the Tools were not functionsl (at least I haven't spent a lot of time trying to make them work)  I found GoKu's TSRE5 and found an activity editor in it.  Started working with that as well as the Third Party App, TrackViewer that comes with Open Rails.  This activity is the result of my investigations/learning to this date.

Back in 2012/2013 a company called "Facing Point Media" was proposing to put out the most accurate "Pacific Surfliner" route for MSTS.  I wont get into the company's policies/ethics....needless to say they went out of buisness without delivering on their promise.  Yes, I paid for the route and I got the original "prototype" route (one of the few who did).  In addition FPM put out a dvd of a cabride of Amtrak 572 from Los Angeles Union Station to San Diego.  Basically your viewpoint is engineer's viewpoint in the cab of an F59PH.  The video is copyrighted 2005 so the video was shot shortly before that.  (I also got the DVD).  In the video, you can clearly hear the conductor call out to the engineer and the engineer radio calls of signals.  This activity is a recreation of sorts of that Headend Video.

"Amtrak 572, Pacific Surfliner service to San Diego with stops in Fullerton, Anaheim, Santa Ana, Irvine, San Juan Capistrano, Oceanside, Solano Beach, and San Diego is ready for departure on Track 11.  All Aboard! "

There are over 70 radio calls that are added as part of this activity.  The conductor basically tells the engineer when passenger loading is complete at station stops and to proceed to the next stop (Highball) as well as remind engineer of restricted Speed zones along the route.  The radio calls can only be heard in the cab, so you have to keep your perspective in the cab in order to hear the conductor make his callouts.  I've tried to recreate the static consists you see along the way between LA and San Diego.  Also the traffic meant to recreate the traffic seen out the window of the cab and to set the signals to mimic the real signal settings as seen through the cab front window.  This activity is Open Rails ONLY due to the use of specific OR Location events that don't exist within MSTS, specifically modifing wait points of AI trains (traffic).  Occasionally a message box appears on the screen indicating what I call a "Work Order Reminder" which basically calls out speeds for turnouts that you should try to adhere to.  The objective of this activity is to basically follow the conductor's instructions.  

I found an old timetable that has Amtrak 572's schedule during this timeframe and it is included in the doc's directory for your reference.  I use "RailDriver" to run trains on my system.  When testing Activities, I typically run using "Autopilot" so I can watch the scenary and/or the trains roll by.  In this activity, I start off in Manual mode, waiting at LA Union Passenger Terminal for the conductor to call out "Highball Los Angeles".  Once I get the train moving I switch to Autopilot mode.  I stay in Autopilot mode till I arrive at the next station.  Once speed drops to 0 at the next station stop, I switch back to Manual mode, again waiting for the conductor to call out "Highball".  Again, once train gets moving I switch to Autopilot mode.  I state this simply to say that traffic is tied to "Location Events" throughout the route.  Autopilot mode basically runs train at track speed.  If you run slower that track speed, that's ok, however if you run faster than track speed you can run into a situation where an AI Train will be stop on a single track mainline, and you will hit an infinite red signal.  Also note that if you run in Autopilot mode, the player train will automatically blow the horn at crossings according to North American standards, ie. long-long-short-long.  If you want to eliminate this you will have to delete the two lines containing:
        ORTSAIHornAtCrossings ( 1 )
        ORTSAICrossingHornPattern (US)
in the OpenRails specific Activity file contained in Route\surfliner\Activities\OpenRails folder.  DO NOT MODIFY OTHER LINES IN THAT ACTIVITY AS THEY ARE SPECIFIC FOR TRAFFIC AND SIGNALLING WITHIN THE ACTIVITY.   


For the route I used Surfliner v2.3 Update. Surfliner 2.3 update requires Surfliner Route v2.2. This update further modifies scenery throughout the Surfliner route to add additional details and local landmarks. Route by Jeff Farquhar and Paul Peterson. Version 2.3 update by Brian Smolke. (available from the library on Trainsim.com)  I believe this is the latest and in my opinion the best Pacific Surfliner Route available for OR.  Having said that, there a few descrepancies between what you see on the head end DVD and the track layout in the route.  Example, just before the Fullerton station stop, the DVD shows (and the engineer announces) a crossover to "track 3", the route doesn't have this track arraingement,  it turns out you on the right track approaching Fullerton.  I left the radio call in even though the crossover isn't there.  There are also times where it appears we take a siding, then a little further down, we get back on the main without meeting any opposing traffic.  This is because in the video the siding is on the left and the main is on the right.  (possible descrepancy in track arraingement on route)  There are a number of sound files (about 80 or so) that are added to the sound subdirectory of the route. These have the name 572-1.wav through 572-78.wav.

There are 16 AI trains defined as traffic.  You will see most of those in your journey.  Some however are used just to trip the signals to replicate signals seen out of the cab of Amtrak 572.  For the most part I've been able to replicate the signals shown, however there are a few that are different in the simulator vs the DVD.  There are a couple of restricted speed zones that are called out be the conductor and have a "Work Order Reminder" message box displayed.  (OR only allows one resticted speed zone setting per route), I needed a 30 MPH and a 60 MPH zone for this activity that is called out by the conductor/engineer.  Crossover speed's are in the 40-50MPH and most are indicated with a "Work Order Reminder".  The activity ends when the San Diego Station stop is reached.  

In the DOCS folder for the route, I've included a image of a page of the timetable for Amtrak's Surfliner schedule (tt.jpg).  Also is a required files list (required-file.txt) which contains a list of all downloads used in this activity available from trainsim.com. A copy of this "Please-read-me-first.txt" as well as an Excel spreadsheet (pac-surf.xlsx) that I used as sort of a worksheet when working up this activity.  The spreadsheet contains 4 pages, OR Timetable, Required files, Consists, loose consist, and Sound. The OR Timetable page provides timetable hacks for developing AI Train meets across the route. The Required Files is a copy of the "Required Files.txt". The Consists page and the "loose consist" page shows each consist and the download .zip file use in that consist. The Sound page lists all the additional sound files and what they are, including signal color from DVD and then the Sim signal color, as well as notes I used in developing the activity.    

Instructions for Installing files and folders:

1.  In the TRAINS you will find the folder CONSIST with all the consist files included.  These consist files (*.con) must be placed in your Train simulator \Trains\Consists folder in order for the activity to work.  The TRAINSET folder contains the equip definitions for the freeware locomotive and the surfliner cars I used.  (available from trainsim library).  I modified the loco to use a "3d Cab View" as well as the locomotive eng sound files (again both available in the trainsim library and contained in the required-files list).

2.  In the ROUTES folder is located the folder for the surfliner route.  That folders contain files under the folders: Activities, Paths, Services, Sound, and Traffic.  the Activities folder contains 1 activity file and one sub-directory "OpenRails".  In that sub-directory, 1 file is contained. The Traffic folder contains 1 file. There are 17 path files in the PATHS. There are 17 service files in the SERVICES folder.  There are 80 sound files (wav) in the Sound folder.  You must copy these files from each folder and paste them in the appropriately named folders in your Train Simulator\Routes\surfliner  folders.   

3.  Read all of the instruction files included with this activity and follow the instructions.

The default configuration for this activity is using all "freeware" files.  In the DOCS folder is two subfolders "freeware and payware" Contained within each of these folders is 3 service files. The freeware folder contains service definition files for using only freeware content (The default configuration). IF....IF....you have the Payware from either FPM or the SURFLINER Pack from 3dTrains, I've included 3 consists for using those content files.  In my case I have the original FPM content. (Note: I bought the 3DTrains Surfliner pack, after the big blowup and the eventual demise of FPM, however, I lost the email that contains the password to the files from Marc. If Marc sees this, I would appreciate it if you would contact me via email amtrak115@gmail.com) If you want to use the payware versions copy the service files from the payware folder into the appropriate Train Simulator\Routes\surfliner folders.  Also update your trainsets folder with the appropriate payware engine/wagon files.  I've included the consist files that used selecting payware files that I have and tested with on my system. If you wish to return to the default configuration, simply copy the files from the freeware folder into the Routes\surfliner\SERVICES folder to restore the default configuration.

GITHUB Installation:

1. Download the entire repository to a temp space on your system.  (I've found the Github Desktop works the best for this),  Then copy the files to the appropriate folders in your Train Simulator\Routes\surfliner  folders.  Note: in the TRAINS/TRAINSET folder on the github repository, all equipment necessary for this activity is  included.  (All of which is available from trainsim.com.  All rights for these equipment files are retained by the original author as described on Trainsim.com. 

or alternatively....

2. Download the Amtrak 572 release.  A single zip file will be downloaded. Then copy the files to the appropriate folders in your Train Simulator\Routes\surfliner  folders.  Note: in the TRAINS/TRAINSET folder on the github repository, all equipment necessary for this activity is  included.  (All of which is available from trainsim.com.  All rights for these equipment files are retained by the original author as described on Trainsim.com.  


Note:  This is an ORTS only activity because it uses some specific ORTS Activity events that don't exist in MSTS.

NOTE:  Sound files are copyrighted by Facing Point Media, 2005.  I modified some of those sound clips to fit the timing of station stops.

++ Contact me at: Trainsim.com member name = amtrak115, Elvas Tower same member name 
